**tags:** #COVID19, #PPE, #FEMA, #Racketeering, #Stimulus  
**url:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/j88214/totally_under_control_new_secretlyfilmed/g89f2un/](https://www.google.com/search?q=https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/j88214/totally_under_control_new_secretlyfilmed/g89f2un/)

Trump's entire COVID-19 response wasn't just catastrophic. It was a literal racketeering scam. Hospitals say feds are seizing masks and other coronavirus supplies without a word. (1) This is in addition to the feds stealing supplies from shipments from states, and acts of piracy abroad. (2)

Here's how what they're doing works: 1.) Eliminate oversight of the spending of nearly a trillion dollars of tax dollars. (3) 2.) Acquire the authority to command which businesses get which contracts. (4) 3.) Have trusted people stand up companies through which the money can be funneled (3 week old company, founded through a loan approved via the Coronavirus Stimulus bill, is now the center of medical supply distribution): (5) “I don’t want to overstate, but we probably represent the largest global supply chain for Covid-19 supplies right now,” he said. “We are getting ready to fill 100 million-unit mask orders.” (16) 4.) Have the federal government sell, at a reduced price, its strategic stockpile to the new companies, run by your buddies. (6) (15) 5.) Have the states bid on the supplies, driving up the price. (7) 6.) Have the federal government spend taxpayer dollars to ship supplies purchased from China to these brand new private companies. (8) 7.) Eliminate the competition. Attack any company that doesn’t play ball. (9) States are having to smuggle in supplies (17) aboard sports teams jets (among other methods), and escort them with state police (10). Is it really to this point that we're going to have to have states deploy the national guard to protect their shipments and supplies and treat the federal government like the enemy? This is no different from the Somalian government stealing food sent by the United Nations and cartels selling it illegally. (11) Except in this situation FEMA is the cartels and the banana republic is the United States. Also regarding Trump removing the watchdog overseeing the $2 trillion coronavirus bill? In 1998 the Supreme Court ruled line item vetos are unconstitutional. (12) His excuse? The Take Care Clause. And the Take Care Clause just says the President can't make his underlings do stuff that's against the law. It underscores that the executive is under a duty to faithfully execute the laws of Congress and not disregard them. (13) If you don't know what that's about, Trump wrote a signing statement (basically functionally a line item veto except the next President could undo it, but by then it'd be too late) into the stimulus bill that he was going to ignore the oversight provisions in the bill and do it himself. (14) Either way, the Take Care Clause makes it illegal. According to Bradley and Posner, since the president is actually obligated under the “Take Care Clause” to comply with the constitution, “if the president believes that a statute violates the constitution, he has a constitutional obligation not to enforce it” (Bradley and Posner: 358).(16) The opposite also holds true (see citation 13). Worse? They specifically knew it would hit Democratic cities and population centers hard and they wanted it to. That's genocide, according to Merriam-Webster - though undoubtedly a crime against humanity according to international law. (18)(19) Of course that's in addition to the genocide (even by International Law) he's committing against the immigrant detainees that are in ICE concentration camps with forced sterilization of women. (20) Mass hysterectomies.* That's in addition to purposefully using industrial disinfectant that causes chemical burns and bleeding. (21) And sexually assaulting detainees. (22) And letting COVID-19 run rampant through detention centers and not actually performing healthcare, falsifying records, and worse. (23)

- = It's important to note that this is currently under investigation. The AP found “growing allegations that Amin performed surgeries and other procedures on detained immigrants that they never sought or didn’t fully understand.” (24) The AP wasn't able to find the evidence of mass hysterectomies searching their medical records but did find growing allegations that Amin performed surgeries and other procedures on detained immigrants that they never sought or didn’t fully understand. I'd frankly question if they'd keep records of literal genocide, personally. I suspect the inspector general will have to track down the individuals mentioned in the course of their investigation. At the very least what they already did find is highly unethical and illegal, and add to that all the other nasty crap ICE has been doing to detainees and none of it paints a very pretty picture. Either way, keep an eye out for an inspector general report on that for a conclusion. Edit: You want to make a difference? Vote (if you haven't already)! Get others to vote as well. Volunteer
    

- you can make calls right from your home, staying safe from COVID-19. Don't just assume Democrats will win because the polls. Clinton was up in the polls and won by 3 million votes but still lost the electoral college. And there's a lot of fuckery going on this year, especially with the USPS. Until these people are out of office nothing will change, and no real accountability will occur. Vote and get out the vote like your lives depend on it.