**tags:** #FoxNews, #Propaganda, #Corruption, #MediaBias, #RogerMurdoch

**url:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/8w1b6i/trump_has_normalized_racism_lying_scapegoating/e1si9v0/](https://www.google.com/search?q=https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/8w1b6i/trump_has_normalized_racism_lying_scapegoating/e1si9v0/)

No. Fox News has normalized racism, lying, scapegoating and corruption. Trump is just another rich, narcissistic sack of shit that has gleefully embraced Fox News' weaponization of propaganda and managed to coast into the presidency because he simply emulated at the podium the type of bullshit that Republican voters were accustomed to hearing on the television 24/7. For fuck's sake, I remember during the Obama administration when Fox News would have Donald Trump call in all the god damn time and talk about global fucking warming, and they would treat him as if he was in any way, shape or form qualified to talk about that fucking subject. Or when they'd let him call in to talk about Obama's fucking birth certificate, and nod along when he was talking about all the evidence he had that Obama was born in Kenya that he never produced and never will because he fucking lied and made it up. Fox News acted like that was an actual news story, instead of the horribly transparent publicity stunt of this imbecilic, racist man child. And do you think for one fucking second Fox News would have ran that story if, say, Joe Biden were President? Fuck no, they ran it because they're racist and they give their viewers racist scraps of raw meat. Fox News was created to function as a machine to make up the deficit for the terrible policies and reprehensible behavior of Republicans by keeping the voter base distracted, cripplingly misinformed, and angry at everything except for the real problems and the real enemies. Fox News perfected the language of racist dogwhistles (welfare, food stamps, "Chicago") that made it extremely easy for Republican voters and politicians to espouse obviously racist and primitively tribalist views in public with the thinnest amount of plausible deniability for their racism. Fox News perfected lying. They lie constantly. They omit truths to shape their headlines and their content. They misconstrue facts. They fail to notify their viewers when, say, one of their "legal experts" happens to be the lawyer for an accused Russian spy. Fox News is so prolific at lying that they're fucking motto for YEARS was "fair and balanced", and that's just fucking hysterical because they're literally the exact opposite of fair and balanced in every conceivable way, shape and form. They also call themselves "news," which is a lie; they're propaganda, and their most popular product are pundits and talking heads at their station who make up whatever bullshit they want and then this is repeated as though its true on their news segments. Fox News perfected scapegoating (everything is the Democrats' fault, even mistakes clearly made by inept Republicans). Hillary Clinton literally hasn't even held public office in three years and holds absolutely no power or authority and someone on Fox News blames her for something every god damn night. Someone at the daily show ought to just pour over Fox News feeds for the last three years because you could absolutely find footage of someone blaming Clinton for something every. Fucking. Night. Fox News is the actual embodiment of political corruption. They provide a propaganda service for Republicans who in turn pass policies that are good for Murdoch's bottom line. They don't inform. They don't report.

Without Fox News, the world world would be a dramatically better place. Nixon was forced out of office because we didn't have Fox News. And now that we do have Fox News, suddenly, coincidentally, Republicans find it infinitely easier to root themselves into their offices despite a mind-boggling litany of crimes that now, thanks to Trump, includes high treason against America. Fuck you, Fox News. The damage you've done to the fabric of Democracy is incalculable.