**tags:** #WealthInequality, #Slavery, #PrisonLabor, #EconomicHistory, #G7 

**url:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/isps87/i_feel_sorry_for_americans_a_baffled_world/g59f42p/](https://www.google.com/search?q=https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/isps87/i_feel_sorry_for_americans_a_baffled_world/g59f42p/)

It is what it always was. It's a slave empire. And a slave empire has profiteers and slaves, and as the wealth inequality gap yawns ever-wider, it's dawning on more and more people for the first time that they may not, in fact, be the profiteers.

This is how America rose to superpower status in such an astoundingly short time. It stole huge swaths of free land from a people it genocide and used slave labor to profit from that land. Without the genocide of Native Americans to give us total and uncontested control of the land, and without the slave labor of millions upon millions of Africans to work and produce profits from that land at zero labor cost, America would never become the world's wealthiest and most militaristically dominant superpower on modern-day Earth. Yes, nearly every other successful empire at that time and throughout history engaged in genocide and profited from slavery, and that's the point. And when America could no longer legally own people any longer, they transitioned to a wage-slave model to continue our economic acceleration. A wage slave is someone that cannot afford food and shelter if they miss a single paycheck. About half of Americans are one paycheck away from poverty. That was in 2019, before COVID hit. In fact, adjusting for inflation, average wages for all Americans from 1964 to 2020 rose by only 15%. Meanwhile, the top 1% saw income increases between 1970 - 2020 of 220%. The US now has the highest income inequality among G7 countries.

The US profits from prisons, with prison population up an average of 50% in the past 20 years. The US leads the G7 in prisoners. We hav3 4% of the global population and almost 25% of ALL prisoners worldwide. And, though many do not know this, slavery is still legal in US prisons. In a culture taught any profit is good profit, it's inevitable that we'd keep filling prisons to enable the continual profiteering of slaves. I hope I hardly need to say that blacks are five times more likely than whites to end up in prison, once again legally considered slaves per US law. The US uses tax dollars to fund medical research, and then pharmaceutical companies sell that back to US citizens for an egregious profit. If you do not have an employer, it is exceedingly difficult to get health insurance, and even with insurance, you pay out of pocket for many expenses.

You'll find some of the wealthiest people in the world in America.

Our net assets are double that of the entire European continent. And it is still built on the labor of slaves. And now thanks to the extraordinary propaganda machine that the tiny collection of beneficiaries of modern-day slave labor, many of the wage slaves are now ready to fight and die for the people that are impoverishing them. EDIT: Little confused that a very vocal minority of commenters are obsessed with literally one single line in the original post about America relying on genocide and slave labor to become a superpower, as if somehow that is in any way material or central to the fact we live in a wage-slave state.

So, let's get into it. Let's just talk generally about the fact that "superpower" is a made up word with no true definition. I use it as a shorthand to talk about America's quick rise to global military and economic dominance. Currently, America is the wealthiest nation in the world in terms of net assets. By a large margin. America's net assets are twice as large as all of Europe combined. So instead of superpower, let's say, "as ludicrously rich as they are right now".

Without slave labor and the genocide of natives to seize their land, America would not be as ludicrously rich as it is right now." Rich?

Maybe, probably.

But literally double the net assets of Europe? Fuck no. There's a myth largely circulated by historical revisionists that slavery was somehow detrimental to the US. These groups, almost always backed by conservative or libertarian talking points, want to mitigate slavery by insisting that the wealth we current enjoy wasn't built atop slavery and genocide.

Laughable to begin with, because all wealth is built on profiting off of someone else to some degree. A company is owned by shareholders. They pay employees to make a product or service, and pay employees less than that labor is actually worth. They then sell the product to people who pay more for it than it costs to make. The shareholders profit; everyone else in the chain loses wealth. This chain can work, if we mind the gap between how much profit is harvested versus how much is paid to the laborers in the chain, but as it stands, we have extraordinary gaps between the two, which is why global inequity is as high as it is.

But let's get one thing clear, pre-industrialization, Cotton was the number one export of the United States. And America was able to fuel nearly this entire economy on slave labor. There was a huge international demand for cotton, right at the same time, serendipitously, that we had milions of acres of farmland producing that good, with zero labor costs and the ability to produce it quickly and for far less money than other nations. Calculating the value of an individual slave, each slave would be worth around $92,000 in today's dollars, PLUS the 20+ years of wages and room & board you would have had to pay a paid laborer. Think about that. Each slave, worth nearly $100k as an asset, plus 20 years of free labor. Imagine the impact this had on the vast plantations of the South.

Imagine if you're a modern day business. You have ten slaves. On the books, you have $1 million in assets - collateral for bank loans at nearly 0% interest, as well as investment capital. On top of that, you pay no wages. So, your competitors, who are out there paying 10 people $50k in salary plus benefits, have a nearly $1 million LIABILITY on their books. A company with ten slaves is $2 million richer than the company without slaves literally just by existing, just on the books, and then get $500k in additional profits by not having to page any wages. Extrapolate that across hundreds of years of pre-industrial economic growth. At a time when most other countries had either outlawed slavery, or were winding down their slave trade.

Now it's true that by the time we began to industrialize, slaves had lost much of the value to the economy (but were still a valued asset and hugely profitable in many sectors). Their diminished importance is what made the civil war possible. The industrialization of the North meant it did not need to rely on the South and slave labor any longer. But that's still 200 years of economic growth catalyzed by slave wages. Would the US be powerful if it had no slaves at all? Maybe. But it would have to be a truly blind eye that could say we would be as powerful, and as wealthy as a nation if all that cotton we exported for nearly 200 years had to be paid for by labor, AND the millions of slaves, worth an average of $92k each as assets, simply did not exist. It's about time, in the end. Can you be superpower without slave labor and genocide of native populations? Of course. But can you do it as quickly, in the span of a few centuries, at the time we did it, without those factors? Absolutely not. EDIT 2: Another commenter was kind enough to remind me that the US only shipped about 400,000 human beings from Africa into slavery, so, that's not nearly as bad as I'm making it out to be. It seems that occasionally, even well-minded redditors forget that, unlike tractors, slaves are human beings, which still fall in love and raise families, even in a world of subjugation, violence and death.

And then of course, there are the times when the owners force you to bear children. By 1860, the last census to assess slaves, there were 4 million unnamed Africans listed as property belonging to roughly 400,000 owners. And those were the ones alive in 1860, after nearly 200 years of slavery. For those interested in the math, 4 mil x 92,000 = $368 BILLION in assets in today's dollars. That was the value of the slave population in 1860, and that's even after many of the Northern states outlawed slavery. Let's do a little more math. And these are going to use some very rough calculations, but, let's try it anyway. The average wage of a laborer in 1860 is 6 dollars a week for 60 hours of work. Matching to purchase power, we get about $200 per week in today's money. This isn't a great calculation since other factors at play have contributed to a rise in wages, and that's below minimum wage, but we'll use it for shits and giggles. $200 / week x 1040 weeks (20 years) x 4,000,000 slaves = $832,000,000,000. 832 billion dollars in profits. Over 20 years. Just from that current crop of slaves towards the end of 1860.

If we adjust for current minimum wage (7.25 an hour, humiliatingly low), that number rises to $1.6 trillion. That's the advantage any plantation or company using slave labor had over any company or platnation not using it.